README.md, before:

# Node dlang
### **Note: This is currently in early state of development, expect breaking changes!**
Package to create native NodeJS modules based on [N-API](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html "N-API")
Tested on Linux and Windows with LDC compiler.

# Requirements
Just a D compiler (currently tested with LDC and DMD on 64 bit Linux and Windows) with the DUB package manager that is usually included with the compiler.
JavaScript is not necessary to generate the modules but NodeJS is needed to test the generated file.
# Usage
Create a DUB project with:
```shell
dub init
```
Assuming JSON format, add the following fields to dub.json:
```json
"dependencies": {
	"node_dlang": "*"
},
"configurations": [
	{
		"name": "example_windows",
		"platforms": ["windows"],
		"targetType": "dynamicLibrary",
		"targetPath" : ".",
		"targetName" : "module.node",
		"postGenerateCommands": ["move module.node.dll module.node"]
	}, {
		"name": "example_posix",
		"platforms": ["posix"],
		"targetName" : "module.node",
		"targetType": "dynamicLibrary",
		"postGenerateCommands": ["mv libmodule.node.so module.node"]
	}
]
```

You can check the example folder for a reference dub.json.

Compile with
```shell
dub
```
The resulting `module.node` file can be require'd from JavaScript.

# Code example
## D side
Add at the beginning of your D file:
```d
module your_module_name;
import dlang_node;
extern (C): // We need no mangling
```
Then add your functions as normal D code (note: they are using extern (C)):
```d
auto foo (int first, long second) {
	return [first, second * 4, 0];
}

// Functions that you want executed on load must be void (napi_env)
void atStart (napi_env env) {
	import std.stdio;
	writeln ("Hello from D!");
}
```
At the end of your file use a mixin to do all the magic:
```d
// MainFunction is used to execute on load instead of registering to exports.
mixin exportToJs! (foo, MainFunction!atStart);
```
Add to exportToJs template args all the functions that you want to be able to use from JavaScript.
## Javascript side
Make sure NodeJS is installed on your system.

If you used MainFunction you can run your generated module.node directly:
```shell
node module.node
```

You can also require the module from JS:
Example file:
```javascript
// Use relative paths if you haven't made an NPM package yet
const mymodule = require ('./module.node');
console.log(mymodule.foo(1, 3));
```
Run with
```shell
node example.js
```

Commit message:

Add type examples and conversion to/from wstrings

README.md, after:

# Node dlang
### **Note: This is currently in early state of development, expect breaking changes!**
Package to create native NodeJS modules based on [N-API](https://nodejs.org/api/n-api.html "N-API")
Tested on Linux and Windows with LDC compiler.

# Requirements
Just a D compiler (currently tested with LDC and DMD on 64 bit Linux and Windows) with the DUB package manager that is usually included with the compiler.
JavaScript is not necessary to generate the modules but NodeJS is needed to test the generated file.
# Usage
Create a DUB project with:
```shell
dub init
```
Assuming JSON format, add the following fields to dub.json:
```json
"dependencies": {
	"node_dlang": "*"
},
"configurations": [
	{
		"name": "example_windows",
		"platforms": ["windows"],
		"targetType": "dynamicLibrary",
		"targetPath" : ".",
		"targetName" : "module.node",
		"postGenerateCommands": ["move module.node.dll module.node"]
	}, {
		"name": "example_posix",
		"platforms": ["posix"],
		"targetName" : "module.node",
		"targetType": "dynamicLibrary",
		"postGenerateCommands": ["mv libmodule.node.so module.node"]
	}
]
```

You can check the example folder for a reference dub.json.

Compile with
```shell
dub
```
The resulting `module.node` file can be require'd from JavaScript.

# Code example
You probably want to check the code at examples/type\_examples.
## D side
Add at the beginning of your D file:
```d
module your_module_name;
import dlang_node;
extern (C): // We need no mangling
```
Then add your functions as normal D code (note: they are using extern (C)):
```d
auto foo (int first, long second) {
	return [first, second * 4, 0];
}

// Functions that you want executed on load must be void (napi_env)
void atStart (napi_env env) {
	import std.stdio;
	writeln ("Hello from D!");
}
```
At the end of your file use a mixin to do all the magic:
```d
// MainFunction is used to execute on load instead of registering to exports.
mixin exportToJs! (foo, MainFunction!atStart);
```
Add to exportToJs template args all the functions that you want to be able to use from JavaScript.
## Javascript side
Make sure NodeJS is installed on your system.

If you used MainFunction you can run your generated module.node directly:
```shell
node module.node
```

You can also require the module from JS:
Example file:
```javascript
// Use relative paths if you haven't made an NPM package yet
const mymodule = require ('./module.node');
console.log(mymodule.foo(1, 3));
```
Run with
```shell
node example.js
```
